Barely a shot was fired.

Book publishing giant Macmillan announced a peaceful settlement with Amazon on Thursday on pricing for print and digital books ordered through the giant online retailer.

Similar agreements were reached with Simon & Schuster in October and Hachette in November.

Hachette had waged a bruising six-month public battle with Amazon — claiming the e-tailer was acting as a bully by forcing book prices to unacceptably low levels that hurt publishers’ profits and authors’ commissions.

Amazon countered that it was trying to get the best deal for consumers — who would ultimately buy more books, which would ultimately generate more revenue for publishers.

While the battle was fierce between Hachette and Amazon, the Macmillan-Amazon dust-up was more civil — as were the settlement talks.

Macmillan, which owns Henry Holt, Picador and St. Martin’s, is part of the Germany-based von Holtzbrinck group.

After the settlement was reached, Macmillan CEO John Sargent said in a posting to authors, illustrators and agents that, while he is pleased with the deal, there are still some unsettling elements.

Amazon released a separate statement saying, “It allows us to grow our business together with Macmillan and their authors. Importantly, the agreement specifically creates a financial incentive for Macmillan to deliver lower prices for readers.”

But the days of super-discounting appear to be ending.

Amazon’s agreements with each of the three publishers embrace what has been called the “agency model” of book pricing — which allows each publisher to set the price that the books will be sold at.

Macmillan’s deal with Apple allows the Cupertino, Calif., company to be the only retailer allowed unlimited discounting, Sargent said in his post.

“Irony prospers in the digital age,” he added. The reference to “irony” refers to the long-running anti-trust case that the Department of Justice had leveled against five publishers and Apple, claiming that the publishers conspired to fix prices in a battle to gain leverage over Amazon.

Eventually, all five publishers reached out-of-court settlements. Apple fought on and is currently appealing a ruling that said it, too, had engaged in price-fixing with the publishers and must pay a hefty $450 million fine.

Sargent said a two-year consent agreement allowing Amazon to discount prices expired on Dec. 18.

Under a separate ruling in that case, Sargent said Apple can discount prices until Oct. 5, 2017. He complained that this wrinkle will “ensure a muddled and inefficient market.”