GRANTS/DONATIONS

BEAVERTON -- The Comcast Foundation has awarded $355,760 in grants to 31 nonprofit organizations in Oregon and Southwest Washington.

The grants support programs aimed at the Comcast Foundation's areas of focus -- expanding digital literacy, promoting community service, and building tomorrow's leaders.

Recipients include:

The Native American Youth & Family grant will fund an on-site component of the College and Career Center program, primarily built around students accessing a computer lab with printing and mailing options to help the students apply for Colleges and seek employment in STEM related fields.

grant will fund an on-site component of the College and Career Center program, primarily built around students accessing a computer lab with printing and mailing options to help the students apply for Colleges and seek employment in STEM related fields. The Comcast Foundation's grant awarded to Big Brothers Big Sisters Columbia Northwest funded the Beyond School Walls, a workplace mentoring program. The mission of Big Brothers Big Sisters is to provide children facing adversity with strong and enduring, professionally supported one-to-one relationships that change their lives for the better.

funded the Beyond School Walls, a workplace mentoring program. The mission of Big Brothers Big Sisters is to provide children facing adversity with strong and enduring, professionally supported one-to-one relationships that change their lives for the better. To support the needs of BGCP's My.Future technology initiative, the Comcast Foundation provided funds for program software, robotics kits, iPads, laptops and other needed materials and supplies through a multi-year grant beginning in 2014. The grant positions Comcast as a lead partner in funding the technology needs for BGCP's Rockwood Club, its seventh and newest facility set to open in the fall of 2016.

Local recipients also include Junior Achievement of Oregon & SW Washington, Boys and Girls Club of Albany and Hacienda Community Development Corporation of Portland.

Visit the website for a complete list.

PORTLAND -- NW Natural's Corporate Philanthropy Fund is contributing nearly $35,000 to local nonprofits that help children and families in need.

The fund, supported by shareholders, is making the following donations:

$7,500 to Stand For Children

$6,500 to Oregon Food Bank

$5,000 each to Central City Concern, Clackamas Women's Shelter and Self Enhancement, Inc.

and $2,500 to Saturday Academy

$1,500 each to Start Making a Reader Today and Food Share of Lincoln County

YAMHILL COUNTY -- The Yamhill County Sheriff's Office Project Lifesaver Team is the recipient of a bi-annual grant from the Alzheimer's Foundation of America for $5,000.

This grant will enhance the current Project Lifesaver Program by upgrading certain equipment and providing up to 15 new transmitters for new clients.

The Yamhill County Sheriff's Office and the Yamhill County Sheriff's Search and Rescue started Project Lifesaver in Yamhill County in 2007 thanks to many donations from both private individuals and organizations.

The primary mission of Project Lifesaver is to provide timely response to save lives and reduce potential injury for adults and children who wander due to Alzheimer's, autism, and other related conditions or disorders. The program consists of a bracelet transmitter, which is place on a client's wrist or ankle, and a specialized receiver that the Project Lifesaver team uses to track the specific radio frequency that the transmitter emits on a constant basis.

More Real estate transactions, awards, mergers and acquisitions, tech notes and grants

The Project Lifesaver Team is made up of volunteers from the Search and Rescue Team along with deputies who are trained on locating the clients and how to deal with the clients once they are located. Once a month, a member of the team visits the clients to change batteries and bands that hold the transmitter in place.

Project Lifesaver aids Search and Rescue in reducing time searching for a client that goes missing. To date they have been 100 percent in finding clients who left their homes. Generally the searches last under 10 minutes once the team is on scene. Yamhill County has had 19 searches since 2007 for clients on the Project Lifesaver program. Project Lifesaver is provided free of charge to Yamhill County residents.

NEW BUSINESS

PORTLAND -- Pam Adkins and Mary Kay Plass have opened a new bottle shop and tap room at 4214 N. Mississippi Ave.

The Beer City Bottle Shop sells bottled craft beer, hard cider and sodas as well as offering eight rotating draft selections all produced on the west coast.

The tap room seats 18 and offers a small food menu of Panini's and snack plates.

One of the most popular offerings so far, said the owners, is the Pick 6, where customers create their own six-pack of any 12 ounce bottles or cans for $10.

The shop is open from 3 to 9 p.m. Monday through Thursday, from 1 to 10 p.m. Friday and Saturday and from 1 to 8 p.m. Sunday.

NEW PARTNERSHIP

PORTLAND -- John W. Houston, managing director of the Financial Institutions Division of Raymond James Financial Services, Inc., announced that OnPoint Community Credit Union, headquartered in Portland, has partnered with and will offer investment and wealth management services to its clients through Raymond James.

-- Compiled by Vickie Kavanagh